A HTTP 500 error from your webhook URL means your server is encountering an internal error when Twilio tries to reach it. This is not a Twilio issue—it's something in your code or server environment that's failing.

What Causes HTTP 500 Errors with Twilio Webhooks?
Code errors or exceptions in your webhook handler (e.g., syntax errors, unhandled exceptions, missing variables)
Your server is not returning valid TwiML or is missing required headers (like Content-Type: application/xml)
Dependencies or environment issues (e.g., missing packages, API keys not set, AI service not reachable)
Your endpoint is not handling POST requests (Twilio sends POST by default)
Timeouts (your code takes too long to respond)
How to Fix
Check Your Server Logs

Look at your Replit (or hosting platform) logs for errors when Twilio calls your webhook.
The error message in the logs will usually tell you exactly what went wrong (e.g., stack trace, missing variable, etc.).
Test Your Webhook Directly

Open your webhook URL in a browser or use a tool like Postman/curl to send a POST request.
If you see an error or stack trace, that's what Twilio is seeing.
Return Valid TwiML and HTTP 200

Your webhook must return valid TwiML (XML) and a 200 OK status.
Example minimal response:

Copy code block
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Response>
  <Say>Hello from Twilio!</Say>
</Response>
Make sure your response includes Content-Type: application/xml.
Handle Errors Gracefully

Wrap your code in try/catch blocks and always return a valid TwiML response, even if something fails.
Check for Required Environment Variables

If you use API keys or connect to an AI service, make sure all required environment variables are set.
Check for POST Handling

Ensure your server is set up to handle POST requests at the /voice/webhook route.
Example Debugging Steps
Check logs: See what error is thrown when Twilio hits your endpoint.
Test with a simple response: Temporarily replace your AI logic with a static TwiML response to confirm the webhook works.
Add logging: Print incoming requests and errors to your console for easier debugging.
Next Steps
Review your server logs for the exact error.
Test your webhook with a simple TwiML response.
Once the simple response works, gradually add back your AI logic, testing each step.
If you share the error message from your server logs, I can help you pinpoint the exact issue and suggest a fix! Would you like help with a sample TwiML response or debugging your code?